feat: add options to host rules to enable mTLS calls to host (#24155)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/configuration-options.md

}
```

### certificateAuthority

> certificateAuthority overrides trusted CA certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`certificateAuthority` overrides any trusted CA certificate.
```

> `httpsCertificateAuthority` overrides any trusted CA certificate.

Reviewer 2: Could you provide more clarity about what this means? e.g. does it mean that it overrides the `httpsCertificate` field?

Author: sure

Reviewer 3: My understanding is that node ships its own list of root CAs ([here](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/src/node_root_certs.h)), which `got` reuses. Providing a custom trust store here should only be needed in exceptional cases, if a custom, generally untrusted CA is used for mTLS.

> ### privateKey

Reviewer: The GitHub Blog has an article about mTLS authentication, and how developers can help keep things safe: [^1]

> In this post, we'll deep dive into some interesting attacks on mTLS authentication. We'll have a look at implementation vulnerabilities and how developers can make their mTLS systems vulnerable to user impersonation, privilege escalation, and information leakages.

[^1]: https://github.blog/2023-08-17-mtls-when-certificate-authentication-is-done-wrong/

> Specifies the privateKey for mTLS authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the private key for mTLS authentication.
```

> Specifies the private key for mTLS authentication.

Reviewer 3: It may be worth noting that this also needs to be in PEM format.

Author: added the PEM format as well as a note to tell user not to specify it directly

> Specifies the private key in PEM format for mTLS authentication. **Note: a Private Key MUST NOT be specified directly here to avoid losing confidentiality completely. Use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Specifies the private key in PEM format for mTLS authentication.
**Note: a Private Key SHOULD NOT be specified directly here to avoid losing confidentiality completely.
Use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.**
```

}
```

### httpsCertificateAuthority

`httpsCertificateAuthority` overrides the trusted CA certificate that defaults to the curated list of well-known CAs by Mozilla.

### httpsPrivateKey

Specifies the private key in PEM format for mTLS authentication.

> **Note: a Private Key SHOULD NOT be specified directly here to avoid losing confidentiality completely.
> Use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note: a Private Key SHOULD NOT be specified directly here to avoid losing confidentiality completely.**
Use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! warning
    Do _not_ specify your private key directly here, to avoid losing confidentiality completely.
    Use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.
```

This is important, so we should put it in an admonition, so it draws the reader's eye. I've also rewritten the warning a bit. Check if this is correct before applying my suggestion.

}
```

### httpsCertificateAuthority

`httpsCertificateAuthority` overrides the trusted CA certificate that defaults to the curated list of well-known CAs by Mozilla.

### httpsPrivateKey

Specifies the private key in PEM format for mTLS authentication.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
!!! warning

>     Do _not_ specify your private key directly here, to avoid losing confidentiality completely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Do _not_ put your private key into this field, to avoid losing confidentiality completely.
```

How about an easier verb like `put` or `copy/paste` instead of `specify`?

>     Use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You must use [secrets](https://docs.renovatebot.com/self-hosted-configuration/#secrets) to pass it down securely instead.
```

I think using the word _must_ is good here. It highlights the correct course of action.

### httpsCertificate

> Specifies the certificate chain in PEM format for mTLS authentication.

Reviewer: I don't know what the words _certificate chain_, _PEM format_ or mTLS means, just by reading the text.

Is it safe to assume the intended audience knows these words and concepts? Or should we link to some background information?

I'll put the abbreviations into the Renovate docs glossary file once this PR is merged. That means the docs will have an explanation of the abbreviation when you hover over it with the mouse.

Author: background information is available in [`got` ](https://github.com/sindresorhus/got/blob/main/documentation/5-https.md#certificate)

Author: I've added the links from the got page above
